and upload hello everybody welcome to
the Monday October 21st ipfs weekly call
we're gonna be doing kind of a community
around the room show-and-tell and we're
gonna start with with intros so we know
all the cool stuff that people are
working on or excited about or what
brings them to this call today um
I am your host for the day should update
that in the notes I'm Molly or mo Mac
two on the internet and I can't even
type my own name there we go and I guess
what am I most excited about today I
generally work on on things I fifa's
project related but I am super excited
about the recent textile launch about
link shortening and so I will I would
love to talk about that today with
people who are interested and smiley
excited that's me
Holly how are you go next Oh Holly only
Zillah on the internet I most be working
on making sure that the ipfs gateway
infrastructure and next up the bootstrap
is all of the bits of ipfs that we run
so that people can find each other and
find their content in all sorts of
situations make sure that runs really
well and that I'm get working up with
alums like we just want it to run
smoothly and calmly across all time its
plan I don't have anything top of mind
for excitement's right now but um I'll
hand over to Dietrich for the next
introduction although everybody nice to
meet you
I have not met you before my name is
Dietrich I'm in San Francisco right now
and I work on browser integration
amongst other things that my PFS if you
if you want to learn a little bit more
about that on the activist blog there's
a post about a week and a half two weeks
ago that kind of explains what we've
been doing with
browsers and where we want to go next
year and feel free to if you have any
questions I'm Dietrich on most of the
things do I get to pick somebody next
hey J I pick you a teacher
thank you I'm J carpenter I'm in Phoenix
Arizona and I am right now I am
exploring any potential integration
between lid p2p and session on it
session initiation protocol I'm kind of
up to my ears in learning session
initiation protocol and yeah I also run
the desert blockchain community here in
Arizona which largest blockchain
community over 1,800 members and
longtime fan of protocol labs and like
this so let's see Tonya that's we had a
chance to chat please introduce yourself
I'm Tonya I'm the founder of alt work
and I'm currently exploring putting out
work on ipfs and a little bit about alt
work it's a platform for freelancers
allowing them to submit client reviews
communicate with each other a bit of
content and get rewarded for their
efforts let's see I'd like to pay sure
I'm Jim I work on the test
infrastructure project which is building
some ability to spin up large tests
across say thousands of nodes so we can
integrate that into our release process
and get some performance measurements
out of things and I have a 10 second
demo
maybe after it's only 10 seconds
you
you want a pixel and you gotta pick
someone oh he didn't go did Jessica go
new but I can uh my name is Jessica
Schilling on the internet I usually
exist at Jessica Schilling all one word
misspelling it's a little bit weird I am
more or less leading the ipfs
documentation and developer user
experience task force slash working
group with the aim toward making two
turns being the dachshund we want to see
in the world we are as a team ramping up
to actually launch a rebound you press
based Doc's platform towards the end of
the year so super excited you can check
out our repo lots of really cool things
happening there is slash docs and since
we've got a lot of people in this color
having her in my field today I'm gonna
post a link to a Google Docs form that
is actually a surveys so if you would
like to be a tester on the new doc site
we'd love to grab your contact details
and conversation show you some cool
things that's all I got hi I'm sorry
adrenaline are we doing introductions we
are I wonderful well hello I'm Michael
Burton's and I work on the
infrastructure team at PL here and I'm a
help run the IP of s gateway and the
various other server things that we use
to kind of bootstrap are distributed
network yeah I guess that's where I'm
coming from
so I'll be quick and through the hot
potato to some cards that they and like
Terry hey can you guys hear me
after son awesome okay I never know
what's happening when I'm using this
phone today I'm Terry Chadbourne I am
the lead for the proto school project
which offers tutorials and decentralized
web protocol
holding concepts so mostly ipfs at this
point um I'm on my way to a doctor's
appointment so I won't be able to show
and tell anything today but looking
forward to hearing what other people are
working on and someone who can see the
screen can pick the next person all
right my turn
you caught me so I've been here for a
while but like two things that I'm
excited there like today we merged the
first so if you haven't checked there is
the cyclic path slash with research
people where we are documenting like
open problems that we have identified in
the ipfs ecosystem with peer-to-peer Co
system and like peer to peer in general
an opal problem is category something
that we don't have like a that
one-size-fits-all solution it's
something that like we're still
exploring something I still like
requires like new ideas and so it's
something that we are documenting to
make sure to onboard new people to think
with us like solutions for those upon
problems this first one was about
preserving users privacy and so in this
your open problem which I will post here
link in chat in a second basically it
goes from documenting like the
experiments that I've been done in AP
Physics system things that we know from
like the whole research in application
ecosystem and like what kind of like
defines like a solution towards or a
next step towards a complete solution on
this open problem we have our six other
problems coming up there will be merged
to either
ipfs slash research or with ppaos
research and you can check the pull
requests right now because we are doing
them running them in the open then the
other thing I'm excited about is test
run so I guess today marks a day where
we got to test plans running one that
showcases the BHT like spawning a bunch
of nodes and a colliding all them
together and I'm looking about your
tests and the other one that like
showcase is spawning
ipfs demons using IPTV as a wrapper
inside docker containers and festering
found like so like
simple and complex at the same time it
was like a good milestone because like
that's the only so many moving pieces
like this kind of like sets the
foundation necessary to write the rest
of the des plaines so it was a nice
achievement and I guess attached to this
achievement that is also like a new
tutorial if you are interested or like
learning how to use go I profess as a
library rather than as a demon you can
go and check out the pull request a
little link here but in situated
tutorial is then they just review and
you can learn how to spawn you're going
PFS nodes as an in process thing that
runs from within your girl code so that
you don't have to run like a separate
process I'm going to that process and so
on and you can use a shiny new quarry
pie that magic have been north one some
quarters ago that is exciting
okay I need to post some water wings
here you just three awesome things which
I had a section so links links
appreciate it
this week and you you want to call a
next person of course I don't
Johnny Jenny crunch are you there patty
y'all I'm Johnny crunch on the
Internet's I work on identity mostly in
health the health care space and
verifiable credentials right now I'm the
author of IP ID so interplanetary
identifiers which is a method in the
decentralized identifiers space right
now mostly working on interoperability
with zero knowledge proof s-- almost yes
with the sovereign test framework and
also for lip using Lib p2p as service
endpoints to create a connection to do
something called did authentication so
how do you connect authenticate I am who
I say I am using interoperable standards
over different did methods very exciting
but I'm way down the weeds of zero
knowledge Bruce oh yeah I guess
pick someone and I guess I think Dirk
you're next nice hey Ron I'm Derrick I
work on a bit swap stuff at the moment I
used to be a JavaScript programmer but
then now we're going to drag into the go
lands which is kind of fun
so yeah I'm working on kind of extending
the disco protocol to make it a make it
so it's easy to know where blocks are in
the system which would help us make it a
little bit more efficient and I am
excited about test grounds like debating
Jim because my next stage is to start
testing the changes I've made so Jim I'd
love to see your demo it's a little bit
of time at the end um I'm also excited
to learn how to pronounce ladles real
name level it's much much in yeah it's
like rare occasion that you can hear it
I'm glad this is recorded yep so I'm
light oak and I'm working on ipfs in web
browsers and recently like specifically
on embedding JFS in brave making it's
like more seamless to enable ipfs
integrations in the browser but we have
a browser extension which I maintain
which works in all the browsers and
things I like excited and maybe I can
demo at the end of that time allows one
pre-caching some artifacts with
extension itself so we now are able to
have web UI being instantly available
even in offline environments and another
thing in collaboration with ens project
we are we are able to bridge the gap
between ens and all DNS infrastructure
and as a part of that we got eth link
gate which is both the nestling gateway
and HTTP gateway for IP us web
and what we did recently is to enable
ipfs companion to recover from dns
failures
so if DNS lookup for it Ian as name
fails we are able to recover by opening
it over eth link I'm not sure if there
is anyone left
is there anyone left yep awesome thank
you I added that one is that demo able
the resolving DNS domains with companion
it's hopefully alright okay all right
I'll give you your later in the list
hopefully there's a time to configure
things cool hi brainstorm some some
items in our show until section as
people were mentioning super cool stuff
that they're working on but it seems
dimmable but feel free to add other demo
items here if I missed one or if there
is a particularly demo mobile component
of the work that you're doing but I did
not catch edition super welcome the the
one that I mentioned which is which is
not work that that I'm doing but a super
cool work that the the textile team
shared out last week on Friday and
they've built this really cool thing
called boom dot FYI which is they call
it exploding links but it's effectively
a link shortener on top of IP FS which
allows you to do kind of permissioning
on short links so that if you send
someone a short link of some ipfs
content you can control whether or not
they can forward it to other people how
many times they can use it how long they
can use it for and there's a snazzy FAQ
section here but it lets you do some
more like privacy and permissioning on
top of sharing chunks and IP of s
content and using their cafe nodes to do
kind of the intermediary and short link
resolution to find content and they have
a nice yeah a nice blog post about it as
well
that explains like how it happens and as
he diagrams and all that good stuff so
highly recommend people to check it out
daveed this this came to mind for me
because I was thinking of your the the
post you have so far is about private
content on ipfs and this this is like an
approach to how to do kind of the
privacy or revocation of content on ipfs
by not actually giving people the route
cid but giving people a stream of blocks
and then breaking the connection between
the shortlink and what blocks they
really do so yeah I think it's super
cool
I'm sure the textile some would love
people's feedback if they folks have it
let me find my list about Molly how do
they do the encryption the encryption of
of the content I think the encrypt
content as they upload it and with but
the with the encryption key I think one
thing I saw one demo before was using
the fragment the hash fragment for the
decryption key so you basically like
within the URL pass it and then in the
JavaScript actually will hold it the
full you your URL including the fragment
and so this is I'm actually heavy into
this right now with the w3c about
overloading the use of the fragment and
and and I like to use it for a
decryption key but it's overloaded and
actually not a standardized method of
actually using the hash fragment yeah I
don't know whether they're not they're
using the hash fragment I would imagine
not they're kind of using a decrypting
gateway model you've sorted let's go so
I think they're empowering people to
kind of choose their own good christian
key to kind of like yeah try and
abstract all of the permissioning side
away from the the end consumer of the
data but I highly recommend if you read
the the article that probably is a good
start and then you can talk to the
textile folks specifically about what's
happening under the hood I imagine it's
all open in summary
go somewhere so you can actually look at
how it's working good question
all righty Jim do you have a demo yes
they started doing construction next
door to me so the sounds really terrible
this is a very tricky mode so okay so
okay should be able to see the screen so
this is test ground this is the project
we're working on pull request sir here
the latest thing I just got the working
on the weekend it doesn't really look
like much but let's run it it's building
a darker image it's printing ipfs into
the darker image and then it's spinning
up two versions of the stalker image
they drop that generated a 100 megabyte
random file in one and then the second
darker image communicated over the sink
API that rule
Raul built and transferred that to the
second note and then it timed it has on
JSON and also sent the JSON up to
elasticsearch so that's all it looks
like it doesn't look like anything we'll
probably hide it behind a web web UI or
something but this is sort of
interesting because we can take this and
we can providing we can run the doctor
and schedule the doctor instances across
many many servers you can run really
really large tests so I'm gonna stop
sharing and that this youth because it's
really wait why do you send it to
elasticsearch it's just a place to
capture all the JSON output all the
trace and the logs and the events and
just a big bucket you could put
everything into you elasticsearch has
some nice graphing capabilities and
search capabilities there's many many
technologies we can choose so that's
just to learn that is in wide use
already company so it seemed like a good
one super cool
thank you if you have a link
to the code-behind that awesome demo
maybe stick it in the note so that other
people can repro themselves cool oh I
guess something else I added to the
notes so a couple of humans were at
diffusion this past weekend Hugo and
Vasco both both were were there in
Berlin Manning at lid p2p ipfs helpdesk
and the folks who ended up actually
winning the prize for the diffusion
hackathon used ipfs in their in their
demo to create a CI CD pipeline so kind
of also connected to to the work that I
know that darkened and our test ground
humans are thinking about so they have
here yes this description talks more
about what it does and then there's a
link to a github repo yeah effectively
just centralized net lifee or however
you pronounce that it's - arts it so I
thought that was really cool awesome
super cool that people are building
stuff on ipfs in in hackathons
daveed do you want to walk us really
quickly through the hoping problems
we're where to look at them yeah so well
if I listen to the links to more open
problems I can click on links if you
want but empty yes
folks all right so this is going to be a
little bit like a repetition of what I
showed before but like weeds like actual
visualization so we have now these three
pose that it has such research and we
could appear research and in these
peoples we will be documenting like
things that we declare as I cope and
problems things that we don't have a
solution yet or at least we don't have a
complete solution and we'd like more
help to figure it out you can see
they're like the first one network merge
today was preserve users privacy and in
this open problem you will see you from
a short description so each one just
like like one paragraph speech to tell
someone about what something that we are
looking for or a longer description or
even like more about what has been done
in the past I thought of eye color terms
to learn about and so on then we jump
into like this state of the art and I
said of the art we always have I to
sections like we denied be physical
system like what has been done for
example hey like privacy like requires
some sort of wire encryption but I get
like this is not the panacea like he's
not the solution but he'll see what we
have done here's like idea like
suggestions like things to look at on a
particular system not a shin like
for example this is a tool like he's a
kind of like a file share application
but like the files before sending then
capability systems privacy and design
networks
Onion Routing it's like a lot of things
that have been tried on a paper secure
system that sometimes are not like
obvious they exist yet like some people
actually don't know that were familiar
about these yet then within the broad
research ecosystem and this is where
like we unpack they feel even more and
we go and explore other areas right from
ICN to like all sorts of like so this is
like a link or names of papers so you
get South Korea's here from non devices
if applications to do a sensitive
applications things about authorization
authentication and accounting data keeps
on private communication content routing
traffic analysis resistant approaches
private information retrieval and others
and so this will be like an ever-growing
list all bike references of a material
we we find it's important for discipline
problems like this soft movement becomes
kind of like a small survey of the space
and then like some of the shortcomings
like like why we think like what has
been developed so far or deployed so far
is not enough this is where we list the
shortcomings and then like solving the
problem what defines a complete solution
and also like so we have kind of like
this very good thing but also bad in a
way because we we get a lot of
contributions from a lot of people in
academia in industry or even just like
independent research and hackers to come
and I could speak to our channels while
that typically creates is a bunch of
threads everywhere so if there's a lot
of pragmatist of information so like
this also collects the information in
one place and that's who you have like
links to all these like previous
discussions that existed in the past so
it should have more and more ideas so
this is like one more problem as I was
saying we have others coming if we go to
the pool requests here you will see
there like there's three pool requests
in draft mode so this is still like even
more raw than the others there's like
one ready to review and so open problems
as you can see like getting bit swap and
grab saying better with network smarts
so you might have recently watched the
presentation from direct improving the
top a lot but we believe there is still
more to do then improving like layout to
represent you know a swing draft so you
might have heard about like the treacle
bag and the balance bag and like all
different drafts can give you different
performances for the type of data that
you're accessing some better for video
some better for like accessing packages
some better to accessing like internal
types then there is you it okay we're
also we're also almost over well we are
over time but I would love to really
quickly let little demo his thing of
course all right you gotta feel like go
get it ask questions there absolutely
hopefully it would be super fast so
here's a browser right and there is
activist companion running a fasting me
so pay attention to the location bar
there's a website on ENS and what's
interesting here is I have like
companion really directly disabled so we
just just there in the background just
the recovery so when we someone tries to
open dot e th and have ipfs installed
they automatically get fall back in a
separate tab so the old address is still
there in a dead stop
however the it recovered in a new tab
using the see th link gateway however
what happens if we enable gate will
redirect someone is trying to open e th
website and they get automatically
upgraded to local gateway they are using
IP FS and don't use that a th that link
gateway at all and what's interesting
here is that I did it all using embedded
JCAP FS in brave so there's like no
third-party software we just someone
went to settings enabled activist
companion switch to experimental
embedded node and it just works at some
point we will support version without
that link here we are mostly waiting for
next version of go idea files but that's
just like cosmetics I can do like super
faster one just just super fast so it's
super fast now in bribe I'm gonna just
sacrifice if you open web UI it's just
opening super fast cause it's already
there pre cached that's it that's my
demo well thank you everyone thank you
for the awesome demos appreciate all of
the snazzy stuff that's happening and
unfortunately many folks have to hop off
to current limitations meeting which is
starting four minutes ago but thank you
for a wonderful Monday meeting and see
you all next week and our happy I
profess weekly holes